The purpose of this lecture is to show you how you can create something like this so you can add a prefix
of the desired language of the user to the URL without modifying the lateral application itself and
modifying any roots and their definition in Lavell.
So what we wanted to achieve is that if there is a language prefix before all of our normal routes like
posts there home page specific post or user profile.
This is redirecting to the actual travel route but with additional query parameter specifying what is
the actual desired locale of the user.
So what language does he wants to see.
And that's why we initially added that inside our local middleware that we are checking for.
This query parameter the local and then setting it into the session if it is present now going back
to the DOT HD access file.
So this file contains some additional configuration to the Apache web server and this will only apply
to the directory when this fire file is being found.
And since this is our public directory where we have our index BHP file to which older traffic is directed
in light of all application it basically applies to our whole lot of application.
Now this file came as it is with the brand new lot of our setup that we've created.
So we haven't modified anything in here and I will also want go into details of what all of those options
do.
So this is a quite complicated topic and well it's something that we could talk about for hours on how
to configure Apache but just to let you know you can read about that if you are interested.
So there are those free links that I will include to this lecture which explain how to use the mode
rewrite module of Apache.
There are a couple of examples in this particular page so we might read it to see what you can achieve
with that and well how it works.
What's the syntax.
Now we will also use regular expressions to match the actual you URL with that language like this and
it might be useful to take a look at this page and read about regular expressions in Apache configuration
file so we understand what of all those symbols will do and what they are for.
I also want explained that you can just go to this link and read that in case you have any doubts now
finally there is this.
Well I would say biggest link word that a lot of information about their specific directives what options
they have what variables can be passed and how to use them and what all of those symbols mean.
What are those options for
so you might have a better understanding of what's happening inside all of those specific rules.
But now let's get to the point.
So our change would actually be a one liner and what we want to achieve is what we want to create a
redirect.
If we find that there is a language prefix from the language that languages that we support we want
to redirect that to the actual lot of route.
But with the additional query parameter.
So as I've said since this is our one liner we'll use the redirect March directive to redirect to the
proper page.
So there are two parts that we need to specify here.
The first one is that you are L that has to be matched and we need to get some parameters from it namely
the language that the user wants and then we'll redirect that to the new URL converting this language
to a query parameter called local.
So we'll be using regular expressions in this first argument.
So we start with well beginning of the query string then we will create a group.
So we need this parameter.
So we need you need a group for it.
So we can reference that later in this second argument.
So this can be either English or German or Spanish and of course before it we need to match slash because
well basically this whereas as you can see they really have to start with a slash.
All right then next part is well there might be an additional slash after the language.
So let's take a look at this example.
So here there isn't any and this means just go to their home page.
But in all other examples there is a slash after the language so we can match it optionally the question
mark Matt means that the previous expression or while the previous literal text should be matched or
not.
So it doesn't really matter if it's matched or not.
And now we have a second group which means that we will need this parameter for the rewrite.
And this is basically everything which the DOT character is for so much.
Any character.
And then we are the quantity fire which means how many times we want to match this any character.
And using this symbol it means match it zero or more times.
So that might be an empty string or a string of length a hundred.
So we see and close those two things in groups because we will have to reference that back in the second
argument.
Well also this year L is optional.
So we need to ask this question mark.
Slash is optional and then this one is also optional.
Now what we redirect that to is a slash.
Then we reference a group using a dollar sign and a number.
So the groups are numbered from 1 2.
And any additional groups will have the corresponding numbers.
So we reference the actual you around the actual valid lot of value URL and then we just add a query
parameter and this references the group one which happens to contain the language so using this read
redirect March directive we will we will achieve exactly what you see in those examples here.
So we have to match a slash then one of the supported languages then optionally another slash and then
after that the remaining part of the URL which would actually match a valid URL that we have defined
for our roots in the lateral application.
So now you just need to save the changes and basically go to the browser open our new incognito window
to make sure that your browser doesn't have anything cached it just might not pick out changes and let's
try the first example.
So a lot of older tests large the E and we expect the home page to be displayed in German so we can
see that.
Well this is the expected outcome.
So we are being redirected to a lot of older test with this query parameter and since this parameter
is now stored on this session when you click some additional links you do not really need to pass this
parameter around this local parameter.
You just stay in German unless you do something else like for example you might visit the lot of that
test slash e s posts.
So now we expect to see the blog post least.
But the page should be in Spanish and it is you can see that now everything is in Spanish.
And also when you follow those links the page stays in Spanish.
Now obviously when we do not specify a language we would say we would get the default.
So nothing changes in this particular case.
But then if you would visit this page in New Top then well you will just get whatever you have configured
inside the local middleware so this happens to be the fallback local so I hope this is understandable.
This is a simple change and well it works only with the Apache because this file this HD access file
is just specific to the Apache web server.
And since this course read commands to use stamp Well I'm showing you the configuration for Apache but
of course if you are using something else like engine X or the BJP built in server this won't work for
you unfortunately so well I might add some additional links on how to do that in others servers later
but for now we are just showing it how it works with the default set up for this course.